# Static Reverse Engineering [SRE]

### *SRE - Dissecting Malware for Static Analysis & the Complete Command-line Tool*

SRE is designed to dissect the PE files (EXE, DLL) for Static Reversing and Analysis on malware samples, suspicious executables etc. and extract the valuable data without executing the file. It is built with comprehensive analyse techniques and generate results as text files under the *analysis_result_<binaryfilename>* directory generated by this tool, which are useful for further custom in-depth analysis or to write a detailed technical report.

**_TIP_:**  If the binary file's name as *'malware.exe'*, recommended to rename as *'malware_exe'* to create meaningful output directory and file names.
<br />

 ### *Key Features:* 
**Static Analysis:** Performs thorough static analysis on the given binary file(s) across the following nine modules and provides a extensive knowledge of the binary file's suspicious characteristics, malicious behaviors, and potential risks.
-   Integrity Analyse
-   Metadata Analyse
-   Packers Detection
-   APIs Analyse
-   Strings Analyse
-   IoCs Extraction
-   Malicious Behaviour Analyse
-   Disasmembly Dump
-   VirusTotal Check &emsp; _<Note: this will not submit the samples to VT.>_

**200+ Checkpoints:** These nine distinct 9 modules are encompass more than 200 checkpoints which cover a wide range of analysis techniques, aiming to provide a comprehensive data of the binary file.

**Textfile based Output:** The tool saves the analysis outcome as text file. This format is chosen to facilitate easy readable-format, review, and further analysis of the collected information. It allows analysts to search, filter, and process the data efficiently.  Also makes it very easy to write custom *'Yara rules'*.<br />


**Advantages:**
- The complete command-line tool with text files as output. <first of it's kind, I guess!>
- The outcome text files makes useful in further analyze the results and/or create a detailed report and to write custom Yara rules.  Also these dump very handy during Dynamic Analysis of this sample.
- It is a command line tool, which makes it easy to use and automate, also can be customized further for more indepth during dynamic analysis research.

**Limitations:**
-  No GUI treats!  Its all command-line.
-  Supports only EXE, DLL file formates (as of now).


### *Requirements*
Python 3.10 and above.<br />
Use '_requirements.txt_' file for the pre-requisite installation packages and and they will be installed using:<br />
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Here are the full list of Python packages as requirements, in case if you need it.<br />
- re, math, magic, yara
- os, sys, subprocess, platform
- pefile, lief
- json, requests
- datetime, time
- hashlib, argparse


### *Usage*
```python
python3 SRE.py [options] [filename]
python3 SREwin.py [options] [filename]
```
&emsp;&emsp;*Note: It works clean and colorful on Linux shell. On Windows cmd, use '**SREwin.py**'.* <br />

**arguments:**
<br />
*&emsp;&emsp;filename&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&ensp;~state file path [to scan single file] or state folder path [to scan multiple files]*  
**options:**                                                                                      
*&emsp;&emsp;-h,&emsp;&emsp;--help&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;show this help message and exit             
&emsp;&emsp;-v,&emsp;&emsp;--version&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;show version info  
&emsp;&emsp;-f,&emsp;&emsp;--file&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;check the file type only (before analyse)<br />
&emsp;&emsp;-vv,&emsp;&nbsp;--verbose&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;show verbose output                         
&emsp;&emsp;-i,&emsp;&emsp;--info&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&ensp;show author, email and url details            
&emsp;&emsp;-l,&emsp;&emsp;--license&emsp;&emsp; &emsp;show license info*  


